**Purpose**

This is a 42 School project, the first one to deal with graphic library. Purpose is to develop a simple 2D game, and learn to manipulate windows, pixels, pictures and manage input (mouse, keyboard). The project requires to use MLX library, which is an old but simple in-house library to deal with graphics under MacOS or Linux. I used a fork which reduces memory leaks and has a few more useful functions vs the original one. 

**Installation**

the library compiles with gcc or clang, using "cc" alias command.
In your terminal run "make" in the main directory, which compiles all files and creates a program named so_long
launch in your terminal "./so_long" with one argument containing the path to a valid map. Few test maps are provided within maps directory.

"make clean" removes object files created.
"make fclean" removes object files and the program.
"make re" does a "make fclean" followed by a "make" to regenerate all files.

**Dependencies**

This project uses the MLX Codam graphic library to draw window and pictures (https://github.com/codam-coding-college/MLX42.git). The MLX library from Sep'24 is already shipped with my so_long project, so no need to update it.
However to compile with MLX you need to ensure you have installed GLFW and CMake on your computer. MLX Codam describes steps to follow here:https://github.com/codam-coding-college/MLX42?tab=readme-ov-file#for-linux.

*Tested on Linux Debian Trixie*

**Additional information**

Requirements for the project:
- ability to ingest and check 2D maps (eg: map has closed walls, only one hero and one exit, and that a path exists from the hero to the exit)
- have a main character that you can move with keyboard
- very simple physics (wall collision)
- manage events like closing the game when the hero goes through the exit tile
- I also added sprite animations, chests with items to collect (or you don't exit!) and monsters that you can kill with arrows (or get killed)

I like to keep my program without any memory leaks (and tell me if you find some!!), but could not solve some generated by the X libraries used. Just launch valgrind ./test and see how many warnings/errors you get with just a simple window drawing from MLX...
